Add documentation for qutip measurement functions (#113)
qutip/qutip-doc: guide/guide-measurement.rst

.. QuTiP
   Copyright (C) 2011-2012, Paul D. Nation & Robert J. Johansson

.. _measurement:

******************************
Measurement of Quantum Objects
******************************

.. ipython::
   :suppress:

   In [1]: from qutip import basis, sigmax, sigmaz

   In [2]: from qutip.measurement import measure, measurement_statistics

.. _measurement-intro:

Introduction
============

Measurement is a fundamental part of the standard formulation of quantum
mechanics and is the process by which classical readings are obtained from
a quantum object. Although the intrepretation of the procedure is at times

> contentious, the procedure itself is mathematically straight forward and is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contentious, the procedure itself is mathematically straightforward and is
```

> contentious, the procedure itself is mathematically straight forward and is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contentious, the procedure itself is mathematically straightforward and is
```

described in many good introductory texts.

Here we will show how to perform simple measurement operations on QuTiP
objects.

.. _measurement-basic:

Performing a basic measurement
------------------------------

First we need to select some states to measure. For now, let us create an *up*
state and a *down* state:

.. ipython::

   In [1]: up = basis(2, 0)

   In [2]: down = basis(2, 1)

which represent spin-1/2 particles with their spin pointing either up or down
along the z-axis.

We choose what to measure by selecting a *measurement operator*. For example,
we could select :func:`~qutip.sigmaz` which measures the z-component of the
spin of a spin-1/2 particle, or :func:`~qutip.sigmax` which measures the
x-component:

.. ipython::

   In [3]: spin_z = sigmaz()

   In [4]: spin_x = sigmax()

How do we know what these operators measure? The answer lies in the measurement
procedure itself:

> * A quantum measurement tranforms the state being measure by projecting it into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A quantum measurement tranforms the state being measured by projecting it into
```

  one of the eigenvectors of the measurement operator.

* Which eigenvector to project onto is chosen probabilitically according to the
  square of the amplitude of the state in the direction of the eigenvector.

* The value returned by the measurement is the eigenvalue corresponding to the
  chosen eigenvector.

.. note::

>    How to intrepret this "random chosing" is the famous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   How to interpret this "random choosing" is the famous
```

because `up` is the eigenvector of `spin_z` with eigenvalue `1.0` and `down`
is the eigenvector with eigenvalue `-1.0`.

Neither eigenvector has any component in the direction of the other (they are
orthogonal), so `measure(spin_z, up)` returns the state `up` 100% percent of the
time and `measure(spin_z, down)` returns the state `down` 100% of the time.

Note how :func:`~qutip.measurement.measure` returns a pair of values. The
first is the measured value, i.e. an eigenvalue of the operator (e.g. `1.0`),
and the second is the state of the quantum system after the measurement,
i.e. an eigenvector of the operator (e.g. `up`).

Now let us consider what happens if we measure the x-component of the spin
of `up`:

.. ipython::

   In [7]: measure(spin_x, up)

The `up` state is not an eigenvector of `spin_x`. `spin_x` has two eigenvectors
which we will call `left` and `right`. The `up` state has equal components in
the direction of these two vectors, so measurement will select each of them
50% of the time.

When `left` is chosen, the result of the measurement will be `(1.0, left)`.

When `right` is chosen, the result of measurement with be `(-1.0, right)`.

> Now you know how to measure quantum states in QuTip!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you know how to measure quantum states in QuTiP!
```

The `measure` function can perform measurements on density matrices too. You
can read about these and other details at :func:`~qutip.measurement.measure`.

.. _measurement-statistics:

Obtaining measurement statistics
--------------------------------

> XXX: TODO

Reviewer: Remember to remove the TODO.

Author: Removed!
